In this lecture,
we are going to build the features section of our website.
And so what you're gonna learn here
is how and why to create grids inside of grids,
how to create a responsive component without media queries,
and again, you already know this last part
so we did that already in the intro section,
but again this time, we are going to do it
in a real world scenario.
And then finally, we will build even a very small component
using the power of CSS grid.
And so we're gonna start with this part here of the website,
so the features section, as I was saying.
Now I chose to go with this first
because it's a lot more simple than this section actually,
so the header or the realtors.
So this one is easier, and so that's perfect to get started
with this page.
And we will then come back to this top part here
and do it later, okay.
So what we have here are basically six features
laid out in a two by three grid.
So three columns and two rows.
And so this is of course a perfect use case
for using CSS grid.
So let's again start doing that in our markup.
And let's actually close all of these
SASS files here, and then start with our markup.
So here in the features section,
so let's again use Emmet to place six features here.
So we're going to call each of these simply feature,
and now let me show you something else with Emmet.
So in the CodePen lectures, I already showed you
that we can use this dollar sign here to number stuff,
but we can also use Emmet to introduce some text
into the HTML element right off the bat.
So and for that, we just have to use the curly bracket
and so let's say that we want to number these features
from one to six,
so in each of them we want to say feature
and then the number,
and then we multiply it by six.
And that's it.
So each of them is now called feature,
and then the text in there will say feature one, two, three,
four, five, six.
Okay, so for now we don't have all the content
inside of each of these features,
like I showed you in the demo.
But just some text so that we can lay out our grid actually.
So let's open our features SASS file
and start writing some code.
So this features element here is a grid item,
but now we want this grid item to also be a grid container.
So that's just the same thing as we have in flex box,
where a flex item can easily become a flex container.
So all we have to do is to write display: grid,
and that's it.
So right now, this features element is a grid container.
Now it would be really helpful and great
to have something called a subgrid here.
And that's actually something that's coming to CSS grid
in the second level of the specification.
But right now, subgrids are not available.
So what will a subgrid actually be?
So basically it will allow a grid that is inside a grid,
so like in this case here, to like snap it's tracks
to the parent grid.
For example, align its columns with the columns
of the parent grid.
So in this example, we could then make it so
that the columns of this small grid
would automatically be where the columns
of our overall page layout are.
Right, does that make sense?
And actually that would be really helpful here,
but right now that's just not possible.
So we need to manually create new columns
for this grid container.
So just to show you what I mean with the subgrid,
so it would be like creating a grid
where we could automatically say that one column
should be like these two columns here from the parent grid.
So basically snapping to this tracks.
But right now, again, that's not possible
so we're just gonna manually create our grid.
So let's start with the columns,
grid-template-columns,
and remember we want three columns here,
and so we just say three columns
with one fractional unit each.
And that's it,
that's three equally sized columns right there.
Now about the rows,
we don't actually need to specify anything for the rows.
I mean, we could do it, and we would do it
basically like this,
so grid-template-rows, and then we could just say
auto and auto, but that's not necessary at all
because that's just what's gonna happen anyway
if you don't define anything at all.
And so we don't need this.
What actually will happen is that we create
an implicit grid, right.
So all of our items will basically be placed
in an implicit grid, and not in an explicit grid
because we don't define the rows,
so we have like zero cells defined for our grid.
But that's not a problem at all,
it works just the same.
So let's get rid of this, and then we're good to go.
And actually let's take a look at that,
so that you can see that it's actually true.
And here we go.
So we have now feature one, two, three, four,
and five and six, all laid out like in our demo.
And we can also see that here in the dev tools, quite well,
so let's select this one here,
and then it will deselect our overall grid, right,
so we can either have this one or this one.
And so down here now you see our grid,
so our three by two grid.
And you see that the line here is dotted,
and as I explained to you before,
that means that these are row tracks of an implicit grid.
Now the next step is to actually get rid
of this huge font size here, and the padding,
that we gave this here just for testing purposes,
and then get rid of the background color
and also add some margin to the top and bottom
of this overall parent element.
So let's do that.
And I'm gonna put it here before the grid stuff definition,
so margin, and I want 15 rem on top and on the bottom.
And let's get rid of the background color as well.
Then in the base, let's also delete this.
And so that should look a lot more natural now.
Alright, so we can also add, of course
a gap here, which we haven't done yet.
And let's set it to 60 pixels,
so six rem.
Alright.
And yeah, so that's better.
And so now we're ready to start filling this up
with the actual content.
So what do we have here actually for the content?
Let's take a look at that,
and so here we see that we have like this icon here,
and that comes from an SVG icon sprite
that I already included in our image folder,
so this time we're not going to go through
manually creating that SVG sprite
like we did in the last project,
because right now you already know how to do that,
and so I did it so that we can just use it
and don't waste any time doing that.
So we have the icon, and we have like this heading here,
and then after that the paragraph with this text.
Now this heading here, you see that it has
this different font size than this one here, right.
So remember that I said in the beginning
that this font size here is like for the usual text,
for the normal text,
and then for the headings we have like
this different font family.
And these ones here are actually H4 elements,
and so I decided that these smaller headings are the H4s,
so this one for example, and also this one,
these are H4s,
then this one slightly bigger is the H3.
This one here of course is the H1.
And then we also have this one, which is the H2.
So I could have done that differently,
but that's just up to you, how you do it in your project.
So that's the hierarchy that I defined for the headings.
So an SVG icon, an H4, and a paragraph with this text.
So back in our xhtml,
let's then get rid of this text here
and start including the stuff here.
So we start with the icon,
and remember how we did that?
So use the SVG element,
and we're gonna call this one feature__icon,
and then in there, remember that we have
this weird use element,
so let me actually write that out.
And then we use xlink colon href.
And then image, and it's simply called sprite, as before.
And then in here we have the different icons,
and this one is called icon-global,
and so that's the one that looks like that globe.
And let me actually show that to you,
so image and sprite,
so you cannot really see the image,
but we can see the different names.
So we have icon-presentation, or icon-heart-full,
icon-expand, icon-lock,
trophy, key, and so on and so forth.
And you could probably open this also
in some kind of graphical software
in order to take a look at these different icons here,
but I'm not gonna do that
because I really just wanna quickly get
my content into here.
So next we have the H4 element,
and this one is called heading-4, very simply.
And so you see that I'm already using
like a reusable style,
and so this is like a component that I'm gonna reuse
throughout the page later on.
And so that's not really part of the feature block here,
and the feature component itself.
So,
world's best luxury homes.
So that's the heading for the first one,
and then we have, of course, the feature text.
Okay, and as for this content,
here in the image folder, you will see
a small text file, and so in here
I have the text for these six elements.
So let's take a look at that.
And alright, we have our icon,
we have our unstyled H4 and a p.
So that's huge right now,
but of course we're gonna take care of that later.
For now, let's actually just copy this here five times,
replace this one here,
this was just for testing purposes,
but now we just have this content
and so we just have to replace then the stuff here.
So this is one, two, three, four, five,
I think one is missing, yeah.
And okay.
So the next one is called the trophy,
it says then here,
only the best properties,
and let's get our text.
Of course we could leave the same text here
for all of these elements,
but then it would look weird and not natural at all.
And also I want to show you something that happens
when we have different amount of text here, okay.
And so it's really useful to have it like this.
Okay, next up we have to replace the global in here.
Change it to map-pin and
here it says all homes in top locations.
And then let's get the text again.
This here is key.
New home in one week.
And only two to go.
So this one is presentation.
Top 1% realtors.
And finally, this one is with a lock
and it says
secure payments on nexter,
so the name of the company.
Let's take a look.
And here we go.
Okay, so that is our content ready to be styled.
And we're actually gonna do that
right in the next lecture.